README.md, before:

This repo contains processed data used for publication with [Hospice, Inc.](http://projects.huffingtonpost.com/hospice-inc/), published by The Huffington Post on June 19, 2014.


The original database was sent by [The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services](http://cms.gov/) on April 1, 2014, in response to a Freedom of Information Act request filed by The Huffington Post.

##Fields and Files

The `hospices_export.csv` file describes 4,252 hospice providers where at least one full "certification" survey occurred between January 2, 2004 and March 12, 2014.  Fields are as follows:

1. Provider ID: The field used by CMS/CASPER applications to uniquely identify a provider (hospice, in this case)
2. Name: Name of the hospice
3. State
4. City
5. Address
6. ZIP Code
7. Ownership type - simple: A grouped categorization of the CMS provider owner type. Options are **nonprofit**, **for-profit**, **government**, **other**
8. Ownership type - detailed: The CMS/Casper field fully describing the owner type
9. Total surveys: The number of full certification surveys. The Office of the Inspector General recommends that hospices be fully inspected and certified once every six years. CMS maintains three survey classifications: **standard/certification**, **complaint** and **federal monitoring surveys**. Only **certification** surveys are counted here.
10. Date of last certification survey: The date of the most recent **certification** survey.
11. Date calculated: Date data is valid through. To find the amount of time since the last survey take the difference between this field and **Date of last certification survey**.
12. Total deficiencies: Total deficiency (violation) count from all three types of surveys.
13. Complaint deficiencies: Total deficiencies from **complaint** surveys.
14. Certification deficiencies: Total deficiencies from **certification** surveys.
15. FMS deficiencies: Total deficiencies from **federal monitoring surveys**.

Because the data is nested, some fields must be looked up in additional files.

Deficiencies for each hospice are listed in the `hospice_deficiencies_export.csv` file. Use the **Provider ID** found in `hospices_export.csv` to lookup all deficiencies associated with a given hospice. This file describes a deficiency as:

1. Provider ID: A hospice’s provider id.
2. Date: Date of the survey 
3. Code: The deficiency code. For the complete details use this value to lookup a short and full descriptions listed in `hospice_deficiency_lookup_export.csv`
4. Survey type: The type of survey conducted when the deficiency was recorded. The three possible values **S** (standard/certification survey), **C** (complaint survey) and **F** (federal monitoring survey)

The `hospice_deficiency_lookup_export.csv` file lists the description of each hospice deficiency code. The original codes were described by CMS at this [url](http://www.cms.gov/Regulations-and-Guidance/Guidance/Manuals/downloads/som107ap_m_hospice.pdf). Codes reserved for provider types other than hospice are not included and not described. The file’s fields are as follows:

1. Code: A unique identify for a deficiency
2. Edited description: The full descriptions found in [this](http://www.cms.gov/Regulations-and-Guidance/Guidance/Manuals/downloads/som107ap_m_hospice.pdf) document were edited by The Huffington Post.
3. Short description: A brief description of the deficiency provided by CMS.

The `loc_export.json` file contains a dump of all the above files inside a single file.


###Notes

Some recent surveys (occurring in 2013) were not provided in the original database owing to delays by state health departments in transferring the latest reports, or by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services in processing them.

Commit message:

Add correction for mt hood, update readme with disclaimer, update data

README.md, after:

This repo contains processed data used for publication with [Hospice, Inc.](http://projects.huffingtonpost.com/hospice-inc/), published by The Huffington Post on June 19, 2014.


The original database was sent by [The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services](http://cms.gov/) on April 1, 2014, in response to a Freedom of Information Act request filed by The Huffington Post.

##Fields and Files

The `hospices_export.csv` file describes 4,252 hospice providers where at least one full "certification" survey occurred between January 2, 2004 and March 12, 2014.  Fields are as follows:

1. Provider ID: The field used by CMS/CASPER applications to uniquely identify a provider (hospice, in this case)
2. Name: Name of the hospice
3. State
4. City
5. Address
6. ZIP Code
7. Ownership type - simple: A grouped categorization of the CMS provider owner type. Options are **nonprofit**, **for-profit**, **government**, **other**
8. Ownership type - detailed: The CMS/Casper field fully describing the owner type
9. Total surveys: The number of full certification surveys. The Office of the Inspector General recommends that hospices be fully inspected and certified once every six years. CMS maintains three survey classifications: **standard/certification**, **complaint** and **federal monitoring surveys**. Only **certification** surveys are counted here.
10. Date of last certification survey: The date of the most recent **certification** survey.
11. Date calculated: Date data is valid through. To find the amount of time since the last survey take the difference between this field and **Date of last certification survey**.
12. Total deficiencies: Total deficiency (violation) count from all three types of surveys.
13. Complaint deficiencies: Total deficiencies from **complaint** surveys.
14. Certification deficiencies: Total deficiencies from **certification** surveys.
15. FMS deficiencies: Total deficiencies from **federal monitoring surveys**.

Because the data is nested, some fields must be looked up in additional files.

Deficiencies for each hospice are listed in the `hospice_deficiencies_export.csv` file. Use the **Provider ID** found in `hospices_export.csv` to lookup all deficiencies associated with a given hospice. This file describes a deficiency as:

1. Provider ID: A hospice’s provider id.
2. Date: Date of the survey 
3. Code: The deficiency code. For the complete details use this value to lookup a short and full descriptions listed in `hospice_deficiency_lookup_export.csv`
4. Survey type: The type of survey conducted when the deficiency was recorded. The three possible values **S** (standard/certification survey), **C** (complaint survey) and **F** (federal monitoring survey)

The `hospice_deficiency_lookup_export.csv` file lists the description of each hospice deficiency code. The original codes were described by CMS at this [url](http://www.cms.gov/Regulations-and-Guidance/Guidance/Manuals/downloads/som107ap_m_hospice.pdf). Codes reserved for provider types other than hospice are not included and not described. The file’s fields are as follows:

1. Code: A unique identify for a deficiency
2. Edited description: The full descriptions found in [this](http://www.cms.gov/Regulations-and-Guidance/Guidance/Manuals/downloads/som107ap_m_hospice.pdf) document were edited by The Huffington Post.
3. Short description: A brief description of the deficiency provided by CMS.

The `loc_export.json` file contains a dump of all the above files inside a single file.


###Notes
The data here reflects Huffington Posts's June 19, 2014, calculations of recent Medicare data. Some surveys and data points provided by The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services may be missing or out of date, because the regulator is not legally required to validate each entry.

###Corrections
June 20, 2014: Mt. Hood Hospice, Inc. was incorrectly reported by Medicare as a for-profit provider. This page has been updated to reflect their nonprofit status.
